Common ia an area for especially collaborative development, and a
nursery for new ideas.  Feel free to drop files and directories of any
type here.

Common/lrep/README describes a major project.

Q - What is the connection with ext/?  When should development take place
there instead?
A - People are less likely to see things in ext/, thus less likely to
help, and less likely to make major changes without consulting with
the original author.  A possible rule of thumb might be to start in
Common, and shift to ext as something matures.

The idea:

  We [used to] have a development problem of zones-of-ownership being
entagled with subparts-of-p6-development.  So person foo is working on
Bar::Hee with is intended to be the wizget implentation for pugs/p6.
And there isn't much code discussion or collaboration.  The objective
is to change this.

 - Be on #perl6
 - Commit early and often. Do as close to continuous public coding as
folks can manage.
 - Keep things as flat and simple as possible.  Perl6::Foo::Bar.pm can
just be Perl6-Foo-Bar.pm, rather than Perl6/Foo/Bar.pm.  Ie, the way
you would do it given full p6.  And if you're working Bar, don't worry
whether it's a Perl6::Foo.  Think "I'm writing spec".
 - The objective of Common is to have someplace where people can
collaboratively hack, with just enough social convention that people
aren't afraid to hack, for fear of damaging others' work.
 - Example: someone creates some tiny bit of code.  they commit it as
Common/foo.pm.  It's open season on files like foo.  If you want to
fork one, copy it to foo-2.pm.  If you want to fork (or post, or
explore an alternative) and emphasize you are retaining editorial
control, foo-putter.pm. Not open season on -owner tagged stuff.
Sortof like the current practice.  Old Common/ stuff without a -editor
suffix can be moved by anyone to Aside.
 - More than code is welcome.  Psuedocode.  Lists of stuff.  Adding
#XXX questions to files.

  Basically, avoid pervasive code ownership, while maintaining the
ability of individuals to pursue their own vision, by providing both
explicit private playpens, and a collaborative space with just a bit
of ownership.

  Maybe this would help.  Maybe this can work.  Maybe not.  Thoughts
welcome.

History:

Once upon a time, the lambdacamels were pondering possible development
paths to a working perl6.  One strawman proposal, which lasted only a
day or two, never the less included a useful idea.  At the time, pieces
of the pugs development tree were too tightly tied to individual people.
It was interfering with collaborative development.  So part of the
proposal was to have a place for personal directories, so that need
wouldn't have to be met elsewhere.  And at the other extreme, to have a
playpen, a "scratch" directory, for more free wheeling collaboration
than one might want in the "working" tree.  Such directories were
created for illustration, and though the proposal didn't last, the
directories did.  ../Aside/PXNotes is the original stawman proposal.

"pX" was the name of a now discarded strawman proposal for a project.
This directory was created to sketch how development for it might occur.

It's now (2006-Feb-12) morphing into something else. :) Perhaps an
experiment in a different collaboration style than we usually use.
Perhaps a p6 on p5 implementation.  (Turned out to be both!:)

