
Perl 5:
  (from http://lincoln.midcoast.com/~del/task.html)

  There are so many ways to shoot yourself in the foot that you post a
  query to comp.lang.perl.misc to determine the optimal
  approach. After sifting through 500 replies (which you accomplish
  with a short perl script), not to mention the cross-posts to the
  perl5-porters mailing list (for which you upgraded your first sifter
  into a package, which of course you uploaded to CPAN for others who
  might have a similar problem, which, of course, is the problem of
  sorting out email and news, not the problem of shooting yourself in
  the foot), you set to the task of simply and elegantly shooting
  yourself in the foot, until you discover that, while it works fine
  in most cases, NT, VMS, and various flavors of Linux, AIX, and Irix
  all shoot you in the foot sooner than your perl script could.

  Then you decide you can do it better with the new, threaded
  version...

Haskell:
  (from http://santiago.mapache.org/humor/shootfoot.html)

  all you have to do is calculate the value of the shoot function on
  foot. (You did define shoot, didn't you?)

Perl 6:

  You pick up an object which assures you it provides the function of
  a gun.  You load the gun with something that functions like a
  bullet, but are not sure whether you actually loaded it or whether
  it will load itself when you try to use it or check the chamber.
  You point and fire the gun at your foot, or something which
  functions like a foot, but because you did not specify which foot,
  the interpreter fires the bullet in each of two parallel universes.
  You are not sure whether or not you hit your foot, or indeed which
  foot you fired at, but you decide that you don't currently care.
  You carry on doing something else and forget what happened.  Later,
  when you go to get a bite to eat, or at least find something which
  provides the function of being bitten for the sake of nutrition, you
  notice a parrot grab the gun, load it, and shoot you in both feet -
  both hit the mark, but only one leaves a bullet wound because the
  operation was atomic.

