Rosetta - Rigorous Database Portability
---------------------------------------

The /modules/Rosetta-Incubator sub-directory of the Pugs project is home to
the Perl 6 native branch of a re-birth of the various modules that comprise
and/or were created to be used by or used with the Rosetta database access
framework.  The corresponding Perl 5 native branch is available in the
open subversion repository at http://svn.utsl.gen.nz/trunk/Rosetta/ .

The term 're-birth' is being used because most of these modules are
effectively being rewritten from their previous incarnations, though they
will still highly resemble and reuse material from the originals, and also
some new modules will appear that didn't exist before.  Moreover, this
process will see simultaneous development of corresponding Perl 6 and Perl
5 versions, with an optimization around proper design practices that are
natural in Perl 6, and partly emulated via third party modules in Perl 5. 
Effectively, the Perl 6 versions will be the main originals, with Perl 5
versions being a port of those.

These Perl 6 modules will only be under /modules temporarily, during their
rapid development phase where they are not necessarily expected to compile
or execute properly under the current version of Pugs.  Once the
development stabilizes, and Pugs matures enough to be able to run them,
they will be split up into multiple /ext sub-directories that each
correspond to the CPAN distributions they will eventually be released
under.  The largest outstanding prerequisite for these modules is the
completion of Pugs' integration of PIL v2 and/or the Perl 6 Meta-Model v2.

The rapid rebirth development phase is expected to last about 1 month.

These are the anticipated core components of the Rosetta framework:

* Locale::KeyedText
* SQL::Routine
* Rosetta (and Rosetta::Validator)
* SQL::Routine::SQLBuilder
* SQL::Routine::SQLParser
* Rosetta::Engine::Generic
* Rosetta::Emulator::DBI

... and perhaps other things.

All of these modules are copyright to Darren Duncan, 2002-2005, and are
mostly released under the GPL license; see the individual files for the
details.

Feedback on and assistence with this framework is greatly appreciated.
