README for mildew - a Perl 6 compiler

Contents

1. Overview
2. Getting started
3. Usage
4. Design
5. Backends
6. Testing
7. Status
8. License
A. Required software
B. References


1. OVERVIEW

Mildew is an experimental implemention of Perl 6, written mainly in Perl
5.  It is named in the tradition of 'yeast', 'slime' and 'mold', which
were/are related projects.

2. GETTING STARTED

Mildew depends on other software listed in Appendix A below.  See that
the other software works before proceeding.  Currently you must use a
Unix-like environment.

Use Subversion to copy the source code from the Pugs repository.  The
easiest way is to check out the entire source tree, but that occupies
over 350MB and takes a few minutes to download.  Fetching only the
v6/smop, v6/mildew, src/perl6 and t/spec directories and their contents
may save you some space and time.

Change to the v6/mildew directory and build and test mildew:

    make help     # optional explanation of make targets
    make          # build mildew, takes 6-10 minutes
    make test     # proves mildew using the smop backend, 6-10 mins
    make test-js  # proves mildew using the JavaScript::V8 backend

In the event of difficulty, connect an IRC client to irc.freenode.net
and join the #perl6 channel.  People are waiting there to help you.
In the event of success, connect to the same channel and give help, the
community benefits from your participation.

The example/ directory has a few Perl 6 scripts to play with, eg:

    perl mildew example/sdl.pl

3. USAGE

Command lines to run mildew work as follows:

Usage: mildew [switches] [--] [programfile] [arguments]
  -Bbackend       execute using the compiler backend
  -Cbackend       compile using the compiler backend
                  (valid backends are: m0ld, desugar, yaml, via-C, js, yeast)
  -o              output to file
  -h or --help    give this message
  --valgrind      use valgrind when executing
  --gdb           run the program under gdb
  -x              specify the language of the input file
  --profile       print profiling info
  --format        format for the profiling info
                  (valid values: dhtml,text)
  -e
  --server        runs as an App::Persistent server

(instructions extracted from v6/mildew/mildew)

4. DESIGN

Mildew uses the 'viv' parser and the STD.pm grammar to convert Perl 6
source code into an Abstract Syntax Tree.  An AST is a data structure
that describes what the Perl 6 program is meant to do.  Mildew contains
various experimental backends selected by the -B and -C switches to
export or to execute the code in the AST.

5. BACKENDS

The 'via-C' backend is the default if the corresponding -B or -C switch
is not used.  It uses the 'smop' interpreter to execute the m0ld code.

the 'yeast' backend uses the 'smop' interpreter to execute the m0ld code.

the 'desugar' backend pretty prints the AST.

the 'yaml' backend returns the AST in YAML.

The 'm0ld' backend compile to m0ld.

The 'js' backend generates code in JavaScript language and passes it via
the JavaScript::V8 module to the Google V8 Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler
and runtime engine.  The JIT converts the JavaScript code to optimized
native machine language.

6. TESTING

The 'make test' and 'make test-js' commands use the Perl 5 based 'prove'
command as a test harness and run the test scripts listed in the TESTS
and TESTS-js files, respectively.  The test scripts are a combination of
files in the pugs/v6/mildew/t and the pugs/t/spec/* directories.  The
latter is the official Perl 6 test suite.

7. STATUS

Mildew successfully executes a variety of Perl 6 syntax and passes over
200 tests with either the m0ld or the js backends.

8. LICENSE

Mildew is primarily developed by Pawel Murias.  It it published under
the same terms as Perl 5.x (Artistic License 2.0).


APPENDIX A: Required Software

Read this entire appendix before trying to install software, because the
already present software and dependencies vary between environments.

To parse Perl 6 source code needs 'viv' and STD.PM, which reside in the
pugs/src/perl6 directory.  Viv requires:

    Perl 5.10.0
    Moose
    YAML::XS

The 'm0ld' (default) backend needs 'smop', which resides in pugs/v6/smop
and requires:

    Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC) 6.8 or later
    Parsec
    utf8-string
    scons
    libperl

Run 'make' in the pugs/v6/smop directory to build smop.

The 'js' optional alternative backend uses Google's V8 engine, and these
modules from CPAN:

    JavaScript::V8
    ExtUtils::XSpp

JavaScript::V8 installation may require a little manual intervention to
succeed on some systems.  For example, using dh-make-perl may produce an
error about ExtUtils-XSpp, which not a valid Perl 5 module name.

Also install the following Perl 5 modules for mildew itself:

    MooseX::Declare
    PadWalker
    File::Slurp
    Coro

On a Debian or compatible system (eg Ubuntu) the requirements are met
with a series of commands such as the following:

    sudo apt-get install libmoose-perl libyaml-perl
    sudo apt-get install ghc6 libghc6-parsec3-dev
    sudo apt-get install libghc6-utf8-string-dev scons libperl-dev
    sudo apt-get install libv8-dev libextutils-xspp-perl
    sudo apt-get install dh-make-perl apt-file
    sudo dh-make-perl --install --cpan JavaScript::V8
    # if that fails try this instead: sudo cpan -i JavaScript::V8
    sudo apt-get install libmoosex-declare-perl libpadwalker-perl
    sudo apt-get install libfile-slurp-perl libcoro-perl

APPENDIX B: References

http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl6/index.cgi?mildew
http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl6/index.cgi?smop
http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl6/index.cgi?smop_dependencies

