=== Possible Compilers

- Switch (prefer 5.10's feature qw(switch))
- Inline
- Indented
- Spiffy
- Perl6::Subs
- Params::Validate


=== Concerns

- It should be easy to turn off specific compilers lexically

For instance:

    use Indented;

    sub foo:
        print "Hello\n"

    use Inline C;
    ...
    no Inline;

    sub bar:
        1

I don't want my Inline code to be filtered.

=== Parse and Dispatch Algorithm

Module::Compile breaks source code into blocks and the dispatches
compilers on those blocks. This section discusses how the code is broken
down and then what order the compilers are invoked.

Note, all boundaries are specified in terms of lines. This makes the
process easier to grok and get right, because then granularity is not
that fine.

The code parsing and dispatch is determined by the first 'use MyCompiler'
statement in the program. Although that compiler might choose any scheme it
wishes, this document describes the default process.

First the file is broken up into a tree of blocks:

    File:
        Global Code (before first package)
        Packages:
            Subs
            Blocks
            Heredocs
            Comments
            Pod
        DATA Section

Next all the code is scan for 'use/no Compiler' lines. No use statement
can go past the end of it's containing block.

An event stack is built such that innermost compilers are called first.o

Dispatch proceeds. When a section is about to be comiled, the class is asked
which parts of the source it wishes to see. Code, strings, comments, etc.
Pieces that are not to be seen are turned into tokens that will likely not be
reparsed.

After the compilation the result is saved. The class is asked whether it want
other classes to be able to reparse it. If not it is turned into a token.

A token is a Hexadecimal MD5 sum of the original text, perhaps in quotes.

After compilation, the parsing steps should be rerun on the result. Maybe.
This is a very edge case.

The next outer scope compiler is called until everything is parsed. Then the
tree is walked and results are substituted back in for the toens.

Done.
