This is the refactored repository for SMOP. This refactory was needed
because despite the huge amount of polymorphism supported by SMOP, the
previous structure didn't actually allow us to take much advantage of
it, because we got everything too much coupled in the build process.

We're also using this refactoring to solve two issues:

 1) The concept of invocant no longer exists in the capture at
 runtime, the invocant is the first positional parameter.

 2) The "data" member in SMOP__Object* can be factored out to the
 types that actually use it, this makes the overhead of SMOP__Object*
 just a single pointer as first member.

SMOP should then be divided into the following modules

 base - This module is actually composed only of the basic
   headers that define SMOP__Object* and SMOP__ResponderInterface*
   along with its respective macros. Theoretically, two SMOP objects
   can interoperate even without linking the same libraries.

 s0native - This module contains the stage 0 native types, they are
   packaged separated because they are not subject to garbage
   collection, and because of its importance to everything else, it
   builds libsmop-s0native. It contains bool, idconst,
   interpreter capture (the current interpreter as first positional
   argument), stage 0 interpreter (recurses on goto, should only be
   used for creating and destroying an actual interpreter).

 gc - This is the implementation of the default SMOP garbage
   collector. It is a fairly standard refcounting gc that invokes
   DESTROYALL on the object when the refcount reaches 0 (TODO: weak
   references). It includes a very low-level continuation class
   implementation that is used to invoke DESTROYALL.

 mold - This is the continuation class used by smop most of the time.

 native - This module contains the regular native types, subject to
   garbage collection.

 s1p - This module contains simplification of Perl 6 types that exist
   for bootstrapping purposes, such as Scalar, Array, Package, Code,
   PrototypeHOW, RoleHOW etc

 p6opaque - This is the default representation for Perl 6 objects. It
   should support storing all kinds of meta information required by
   the Perl 6 default object system.